Often this question is asked that
when will the health insurance get activated, that is, if
I took a health insurance policy today, then
when can I claim for any disease
inside the hospital, so
in this video I am going to talk about this,
before that a quick reminder to you,
if you have not yet subscribed to my YouTube channel, then
subscribe
because every week I bring
one to two educational videos to make your financial life easier, so let's move ahead, first of all,
whenever you
take a health insurance policy, two
types of waiting periods start, one is
time bound waiting period and the
other is permanent exclusion, first let us
understand the time out waiting period, time
out waiting period means that
as time passes, diseases will increase, first of all there is an
initial
waiting period which is of 30
days, after that
if there is no critical disease already, then it gets activated,
critical diseases include
cancer, heart, paralysis, kidney failure
and seasonalism  Diseases like dengue,
malaria, swine flu, corona etc. get covered
after one month of taking the policy i.e. after
30 days. Here,
in an underlined statement, I will
try to explain it to you with an example. Suppose
you took a health insurance policy on 1st April,
then your waiting period of 30 days
ends on 30th April, that is,
if you claim for the health insurance
policy on 1st April, then the claim will be made.
But if you have
any symptoms of that disease
or have been diagnosed between 1st April to 30th April, then
that disease will not be covered after one month. That is why it is
very important to keep in mind that if on 25th April or
26th April, if any diagnosis is made, for example, suppose
you have fever but have been
admitted to one or two places, then also it will
not be covered, that is, both diagnosis and treatment should be done
after 30 days.
Accidental accidents happen first,
under accidents like dog biting, snake
biting, road accident, drowning in water,
all these things  It happens accidentally, after that we talk about the
second waiting period which is the
waiting period. In the 2 year waiting period, there are
some diseases which are Shlok
diseases which after withdrawing the first 2 years, as soon as
you pay the third installment,
these diseases also occur as a result,
like cataract,
uterus, which is not to be removed from the agarwal,
joint replacement stone, any kind of F2
LA file, there are some such diseases,
I have made a detailed video of this separately,
I am giving its link in the description, you
can watch it from there. Now the thing to understand in this also is
that suppose you took
a health insurance policy on 26 January 2023,
then your 2 year waiting period will be
completed on 26 January, so only after 26 January 2025,
your 2 year diseases
like cataract should be diagnosed
and treatment is also possible only then, if within this
thing is diagnosed, then you will
not get its treatment or claim even after two years.
Third thing  There are many diseases which are non-existing. Non-
existing diseases are many diseases for which you are
taking medicine today or have some
symptoms, then they are called non-existing diseases.
You have to declare this in the proposal form while taking insurance
and after that insurance companies usually impose a
waiting period of three to four years. 3 year
waiting period means that
after completion of 3 years, if
any claim comes in the fourth year, then
you get that claim and 4 year
waiting period means that
after completion of 4 years, if you have any claim in the fifth year
related to that disease, then your film owner.
Now let's talk about permanent exclusion. There are
some diseases which are never known,
like if someone has a
hole in the heart from birth, then it is never known,
this is called permanent exclusion.
HIV positive is also a
permanent exclusion in many insurance companies,
so I hope
you will get it from this video.  If you found something inside then please
like, share and subscribe to this video of mine.
Thank you.